So the first thing when you are working
with React that you're definitely
familiar with is client side rendering.
So with client side rendering, essentially
what happens is your user makes a request
to your server,
which responds with bare bones HTML.
Browser parses this HTML, which contains
nothing, then your client request and
download the scripts, and
then it will actually execute this which
dynamically appends all those elements.
Only then will your user actually
see stuff render to the screen.
So all the rendering
happens in the browser.
So most basic implementation is,
of course, having this route here,
and then maybe a bundle.js and
this bundle contains, I don't know,
a DOM manipulation.
But when you're working with React, if we
go to any of, I mean, I won't go over it.
If we go to any of the other exercises,
you will see that the initial load will
just contain that ID root,
just empty HTML.
And as the bundle comes in, it
automatically appends all those DOM nodes,
and that's when a user is
actually able to see things.
So from a performance perspective,
client side rendering returns in
a pretty fast time to first byte.
Here's a time to first byte
as the time it takes for
the browser as a first byte
of that initial response.
But that is just the small HTML,
nothing in it yet, it's just that ID root.
So that's pretty good.
However, when it does that, it still
needs to fetch the bundle before the user
is actually able to see anything and
interact with anything.
So with client side rendering, what could
happen if your bundle is pretty big,
which is why bundle splitting is so
important.
Is that the first Contentful paint,
the largest Contentful paints, and
of course also the time to interactive.
Because it also binds those events,
handlers to all those components can be
pretty long, or user can wait a long time.
However, client side rendering is
definitely useful if your content should
be interactive instantly.
Because what it does is it parses
the data, it renders it and
also automatically binds those
event listeners to them right away.
Yeah, which is what sort of
like the interactivity but
then the bundle size is also
not super SEO friendly.
Because when a crawler is crawling
your website, it might take a while to
actually fetch that bundle too long and
it actually won't crawl it.
So instead, what we might
wanna use is static rendering.
So with static rendering, what happens is,
just gonna go up all the way,
is that the HTML contents,
the contents of a page are already
pregenerated at build time.
So in that case, the client can
request the HTML from the server, and
it can instantly show something.
Because the HTML,
instead of just having that roots,
it already contains all the elements
that we eventually wanna show.
Now, of course, this is just HTML,
it's not interactive yet, and
that's why the client, then,
also still has to request a bundle.
But this bundle doesn't contain all
those DOM append child methods,
it just contains those hydration elements,
so
binding those event listeners
to that static HTML.
Cuz a bare minimum for a static rendered
application is just to have listings, but
when you're just using RAC
normally out of the box,
it will always default to
client side rendering.
But maybe if you're using
a framework like next.js,
it's super easy to statically render.
Let's see if this one is using.
Yeah, so
this example here is using next.js.
I know a lot of frameworks also
include static rendering, but
this was just the easiest one to use.
So here you can see that.
Let's see if we're actually using it.
By default, it will actually off to
static rendering just because it has so
many performance benefits.
So when we go into the network here,
Inspect, I'm just going to reload this.
You can see that it already contains all
this HTML that we're eventually showing
here, and it didn't have that,
I'll try to find maybe the,
These exercises here,
then you might see the difference,
cuz this is a client side rendered up that
I could have used the listings as well.
But here what you see is when we initially
load it, it contains nothing, it just has.
Well, okay, you're also using Steglitz now
so it's adding a bunch of other stuff.
But the HTML itself on
the initial quest is empty,
whereas here it already contains the data
that the browser needs to render.
Now, of course, it doesn't have
the CSS yet because it's just HTML,
it still needs to make that
trip to fetch the CSS and
then also fetch the bundle
to hydrate them.
But static rendering, let me see,
it just comes with so
many benefits because yeah, the time
to first byte can still be very fast.
Cuz we just have the HTML file and
in a lot of cases,
because it's just static content,
we can easily cache it on CDN.
So the user doesn't always have
to make that request to a server,
we can just cache that static
page near to our users or
close to our users on the edge or
any CDN close to the user.
But of course,
what does happen is that we have to make
an additional request to fetch the bundle.
So even though the user sees content
rendered to the screen, they think it's
interactive, they don't think about that,
where people don't think about, okay,
I cannot click on this yet
because the bundle hasn't fetched.
Well, maybe just developers
think about that.
Cuz it still needs to make
the request to fetch the bundle and
then attaches event handlers
which is the hydration part.
So, yeah, it can be very good
depending on the page that you have.
Yeah, so
let's see where I was going with this.
But in a lot of cases, the stuff that we
just saw was with not dynamic data, but
you can still statically render
also with dynamic data and
there are a few approaches.
So when you're using next, you can use
something called get static props, and
this method runs at build time.
So when we're building our application,
so before we deploy it we build it,
it will actually fetch this data and
then inject that data into the HTML that
eventually we parsed our servers and
the CDN.
So here I actually created a quick example
showing this, and I know there are more
frameworks that use an approach like this,
it's just one way to render content.
So we have the getStaticProps, this one
fetches these listings at build time,
which then automatically
passes these props to the app,
which can statically
render these listings.
So from a user perspective,
we end up with the exact same output,
because the generated HTML is,
again, the HTML that we saw before.
So it already contains the listing
step will eventually render.
Let's see.
Yeah so the exact same, it's just
different from a developer perspective,
so the tradeoffs are the exact same.
But imagine calling this method
every time for a lot of pages.
Cuz in next.js, you can just
have those automatic pages here,
if we have the page folder, it also
includes route-based splitting by default.
But if you want to pregenerate a lot
of pages, it might take a while.
Maybe this fetch call takes three seconds
to finish, if that'll run sequentially,
our build may end up being like 45
minutes, if we want to pre-render lots of
pages, maybe an e-commerce website or
a blog, stuff like that.
And also in order, if we deployed this
website and we wanted to update this data,
we'd have to redeploy the entire
website in order to update that data.
So that's not great.
Now, of course, one thing we can do here
is to fetch the dynamic data client side.
So we render everything else statically,
and
then we just render the listings once
the user can actually see something.
So in the meantime, we'll just
render a skeleton UI or something.
So it fetches this data and
only then will it show the listings.
And of course, there's also the step with
adding the event listeners and so on.
I won't really go too much into
the implementation then, but example here,
we're also using the SWRI
like we saw before.
So we can fetch API's or we can fetch
the listings from the API and while it's
loading, we'll just show a skeleton, and
otherwise we'll just show the listings.
So in that case, we again,
have a good time to first byte same with
any statically rendered application.
We also have a good first Contentful
paint, because the first Contentful paint
is essentially the view that we see,
let's see here.
This could be the first Contentful paint,
but the largest Contentful paint doesn't
happen until the listings
are in the viewport.
So even though we have a good first
Contentful paint in that case the largest
contentful paints still has to wait for
their listings to be fetched and
then rendered.